# Blog Post 1

## January 8, 2022

In the past, some web developers would identify as exclusively “front end developers.”  Today, though, this is hardly ever the case.  It is almost impossible to design at only the front end, without touching the back end, or the server side, at all.  This is not to say that developers have to be a master of every aspect of web development.  Specialization in certain areas should be encouraged, and often ends up happening even if not intentionally.  Especially in a team of developers, it is ideal to have different members with a wide array of specialties to ensure that all your bases are covered.

Digital-based organizations are considered to be more “agile” than traditional ones.  This means that they are primarily centered around the technical aspects of their business, as opposed to it just being one division in a larger organization.  This allows for streamlined communication and faster innovation.  Another benefit is the concept of continuous delivery, meaning that a digital product is often re-released time and time again after its initial unveiling.  This allows the developers to get their product out quickly to meet a deadline, while still continuing to perfect it.  New updates and patches can later be added to fix bugs or add missing features.

Originally, all websites were static, meant to only display text.  HTML, the premier programming language for years, reflected this purpose.  CSS was created to make websites more appealing to look at, allowing developers to style them with colors and basic transitions.  When websites needed to be more functional, JavaScript was introduced to fill this void.  Despite being created in only ten days by Brendan Eich, it quickly exploded in popularity to become the universal language today.  The next step in this evolution was the development of webapps.  These are often even more interactive and easier to use, especially on mobile.  The tradeoff, though, is that it sacrifices many fundamental aspects of the internet, such as a shareable URL.

Browsers have similarly undergone many changes over the years, often spurred by their competition with each other.  There was a time when developers wanted to move away from HTML4 in favor of XHTML, which presented several problems of its own and was not even supported on Internet Explorer.  In response to this, browsers like Firefox and Opera created HTML5 as an alternative.  Nowadays, browsers adapt much faster than before, so the amount of time in between a new feature being introduced and browsers supporting it is shrinking.  Additionally, browser prefixes can be added in CSS to translate features that are normally not compatible.  Another alternative is polyfills, which provide a pure JavaScript solution.
